# Contraceptive-Classifier-Indonesia-Survey

Worked with my friend Nabeel Hingun to create a classifier that predict the type of contraceptive used by participants in Indonesia's national survey.

In the following paper, we investigate the Contraceptives Dataset. The purpose of this research is to develop a classification model to accurately predict the form of contraception used by a married woman based on other individual features such as age, education, standard of living, etc. In this report, we explain our analysis of the data, the models developed, and conclude with some ethical issues encountered. The interest in the type of contraceptives used by Indonesian women in 1987 seems to have stemmed from a decline in the fertility rate of the country which started in the 1970s and the government tried to understand what was happening.

Some of the questions we had included: What are the best indicators to help predict what kind of contraception (if any) a married Indonesian woman used? Could her choice be best determined by the number of children she bore, her education, her religion, the characteristics of her spouse or any external sources such as media exposure and her working status. Are there any co-founding factors that affect this dataset? Such as husband education and wife education, or wife education and media exposure? What could be the least useful indicator to predict the kind of contraception a woman uses?

Through this project, we were able to explore the whole Data Science life cycle and answer some of our own open ended questions. We do realize that we analyzed only a few data points and that some of our conclusions might be flawed by the assumptions we made and by the lack of further information. According to our models, the most important indicators to predict the use of contraceptives is the number of children and the level of education of the woman whereas the least influential features are religion and wife working status.
